Title: GSoC 2013 Week 2 Review
Date: 2013-07-02 18:23
Tags: gsoc, sdl
Category: GSoC 2013
Slug: gsoc-2013-week-2
Author: Apoorv Upreti

Last week I set up a basic API for launching and terminating processes on Windows. The API so far consists of just three functions:

* __SDL_LaunchProcess():__ Launches a process with some command line arguments.
* __SDL_IsProcessRunning():__ Checks if a process is running or not.
* __SDL_KillProcess():__ Kills the specified process.

I also had to get a build setup working on Linux using autotools. It wasn't easy getting started - good tutorials that started from the basics were hard to find. The best resource I found was a [set of slides](http://www.lrde.epita.fr/~adl/autotools.html) by Alexandre Duret-Lutz. I did get a build setup working in end, although I'll have to get some expert advice on it to make sure it's acceptable.

I've added doxygen documentation for functions and structs in the current API.

One issue to think about:

At least on Linux, PIDs can be reused. So IsProcessRunning() can report a process as running while in fact the process may have terminated a while back and a different process with the same PID may have taken its place. I'm not sure if this is a situation that I'll run into often enough for it to warrant fixing.

Next steps:

* Implement process API for Linux.
* Implement parsing command line parameters to the testharness.
* Implement loading these command line parameters from a config file.
* Timed quit for the SUT.