Title: GSoC 2013 Week 7 and Midterm Review
Date: 2013-08-05 20:36
Tags: gsoc, sdl
Category: GSoC 2013
Slug: gsoc-2013-week-7-and-midterm-review
Author: Apoorv Upreti

Today is the last day of week 7 and the end of the first half of GSoC. It appears I have performed well enough to clear the midterm review. In this blog post I'll discuss what I've accomplished over the last seven weeks and give a short overview of the functionality so far.

Andreas' suggestion was to approach the project [SCRUM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_%28development%29) style, dividing entire project into a product backlog with "user stories" that described what features a user might possibly need. These user stories were grouped into five themes. The product backlog can be found [here](https://github.com/nerdap/autotestsprite2/wiki/Product-Backlog). This turned out to be very useful to stay on track and not go off on unrelated tangents. By the end of this week, I'll have finished the first two themes.

### What we have so far
We've got a test harness that takes a SUT (system under test; in our case this is testsprite2) executable as a parameter along with a config file that describes the command line options that the SUT takes as input, and then launches the SUT with different combinations of the command line parameters. The SUT executable is killed automatically after a certain timeout period that can be specified while running the test harness. The exit status returned by the SUT process is checked to see if the run was a pass or a fail.

An SUT config file is a CSV file where each line describes the type and range of values accepted by each SUT option. I've described the format in detail [here](https://github.com/nerdap/autotestsprite2/wiki/SUT-Command-Line-Options-Encoding). There could be merit in shifting to a more versatile format like JSON, because there are plans to add features like dependencies between parameters, short descriptions for each parameter and so on.

A combination of command line parameters that is passed to the SUT is called a variation. Currently there are two schemes to generate variations - exhaustive and random. The exhaustive variation scheme in some sense runs the SUT for all possible variations that the SUT can take while the random scheme randomly generates variations. Detailed information on how these variations are generated can be found on the [wiki page](https://github.com/nerdap/autotestsprite2/wiki/Variators).

To check out the project so far, you can pull the [repository](https://bitbucket.org/nerdap/sdlvisualtest) and build using the instructions given in the README.txt. One way to run the test harness is as follows:

    ./testharness --sutapp /path/to/testsprite2 --sutconfig /path/to/repo/visualtest/sample.sut.config --timeout 5000 --variator random --num-variations 5

This runs testsprite2 using the sample configuration provided in the repository. The variations are generated randomly and the test harness quits after testing with 5 variations.

For a more details on the kind of options you can pass to the test harness, launch the test harness with no parameters:

    ./testharness

With that, [theme 1 and 2](https://github.com/nerdap/autotestsprite2/wiki/Product-Backlog#1-theme-design-and-core-infrastructure) are complete, and next week I'll move on to [theme 3](https://github.com/nerdap/autotestsprite2/wiki/Product-Backlog#3-theme-action-based-testing-and-core-test), where I'll work on implementing "actions" like quit process, take screenshot, and so on. A list of such actions will be loaded from a file and each action will have a specific time when it has to be executed. These actions act on the SUT to collect data for the test oracle.

GSoC has been a lot of fun so far. Although I've not moved as fast as I wanted to, it is my hope that in the next half I'll make much more significant progress.