Title: GSoC 2013 Weeks 8, 9, 10 Review
Date: 2013-08-25 22:12
Tags: gsoc, sdl
Category: GSoC 2013
Slug: gsoc-2013-weeks-7-9-10
Author: Apoorv Upreti

For the past three weeks I've been working on [Theme 3](https://github.com/nerdap/autotestsprite2/wiki/Product-Backlog#3-theme-action-based-testing-and-core-test) which is about developing a system to read a queue of "actions" from a file and execute them. These actions are performed on the SUT process and serve as a mechanism to test the SUT and quit/kill it when necessary. As of now we have four actions - QUIT, KILL, LAUNCH and SCREENSHOT.

The QUIT action is used to gracefully quit the SUT process. While this is simple to implement on Linux, on Windows there no easy way to gracefully quit. The standard procedure is to iterate through all the windows owned by the process and send WM_CLOSE messages to each of them.

The KILL action is used in situations where the SUT has hung or is taking too long to quit.

The LAUNCH action launches a process with a given list of command line arguments.

The SCREENSHOT action takes three screenshots of each window of the SUT process. One screenshot of the entire desktop, one of the entire window and one of the window's client area. I tried various command line tools for this but none of them seemed perfect so I ended up implementing screenshot functions myself. For now this action is only supported on Windows.

To get an idea of what an actions config file looks like, take a look at sample.actions.config in the project repository.

With the actions system in place, theme 3 is complete. The next step is to validate the screenshots to check if SDL is rendering the content correctly. This will be a slight detour from theme 4. On Andreas' suggestion, I'm going to develop only for Windows from now on, and work on Linux after testing on Windows is complete.